[workers] Update postgres tutorial (#9342)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/tutorials/postgres/index.md

---
updated: 2023-06-12
difficulty: Intermediate
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Connect to a PostgreSQL Database with Cloudflare Workers
layout: single
---

> # Connect to a PostgreSQL Database with Cloudflare Workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Connect to a PostgreSQL database with Cloudflare Workers
```

> In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a Cloudflare Workers project and connect to a PostgreSQL database using [TCP Sockets](/workers/runtime-apis/tcp-sockets/). We'll demonstrate this by creating a Workers application that interacts with a product database inside of PostgreSQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a Cloudflare Workers application and connect it to a PostgreSQL database using [TCP Sockets](/workers/runtime-apis/tcp-sockets/). The Workers application you create in this tutorial will interact with a product database inside of PostgreSQL.
```

## Prerequisites

> Before you start, make sure you have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To continue:
```

> - A Cloudflare account - if you don't have one, [sign up](https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up/workers-and-pages) before continuing.
> - Node.js and `npm` installed on your machine.
> - Access to a PostgreSQL database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign up for a [Cloudflare account](https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up/workers-and-pages) if you have not already.
2. Install [`npm`](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started).
3. Install [`Node.js`](https://nodejs.org/en/). Use a Node version manager like [Volta](https://volta.sh/) or [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to avoid permission issues and change Node.js versions. [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/) requires a Node version of `16.13.0` or later.
4. Make sure you have access to a PostgreSQL database.
```

> ## Step 1: Create a new project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Create a Worker application
```

> First, use the [`create-cloudflare` CLI](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/create-cloudflare) to create a new Cloudflare Workers project. To do this, open a terminal window and run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, use the [`create-cloudflare` CLI](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/create-cloudflare) to create a new Worker application. To do this, open a terminal window and run the following command:
```

```sh

> $ npm create cloudflare

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ npm create cloudflare@latest
```

```

or `yarn`:

```sh

> $ yarn create cloudflare

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ yarn create cloudflare@latest
```
Same comment about tab switcher as in CDN tutorial.

```

> This will prompt you to install the [`create-cloudflare`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-cloudflare) package and lead you through a setup wizard. When asked to choose a template, select the "Hello World Script" option.

Reviewer: Do they use TS or JS or it does not matter?

> This will prompt you to install the [`create-cloudflare`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-cloudflare) package and lead you through a setup wizard. When asked to choose a template, select the "Hello World Script" option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will prompt you to install the [`create-cloudflare`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-cloudflare) package and lead you through a setup wizard.

To continue with this guide:

1. Give your new Worker application a name.
2. Select `"Hello World" Worker` for the type of application.
3. Choose `Yes` to using TypeScript.
4. Select `No` to deploying your application. 
```

> Once your project has been configured and scaffolded, you will be asked if you would like to deploy the project to Cloudflare. If you choose not to deploy, you can navigate to the newly created project folder to begin development. Otherwise, you'll be asked to authenticate (if not logged in already), and your project will be deployed.

Reviewer 2: If you're recommending they use create-cloudflare which I assume is the C3 CLI too, where they get prompted to pick a template you should point out which one they should select. I assume in this case it will be Hello World Script

Author: oh right! thanks, will add that.

> Once your project has been configured and scaffolded, you will be asked if you would like to deploy the project to Cloudflare. If you choose not to deploy, you can navigate to the newly created project folder to begin development. Otherwise, you'll be asked to authenticate (if not logged in already), and your project will be deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you choose to deploy, you will be asked to authenticate (if not logged in already), and your project will be deployed. If you deploy, you can still modify your Worker code and deploy again at the end of this tutorial.
```

> ## Step 2: Add the PostgreSQL connection library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Add the PostgreSQL connection library
```

> To connect to a PostgreSQL database, you will need the `pg` library. In your project folder, run the following command to install the library:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to a PostgreSQL database, you will need the `pg` library. In your Worker application directory, run the following command to install the library:
```

```sh
$ npm install pg
```

> Make sure you are using `pg` (node-postgres) version `8.11.0` or higher, as earlier versions do not support the Cloudflare Workers TCP Sockets API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you are using `pg` (node-postgres) version `8.11.0` or higher, as earlier versions do not support the Cloudflare Workers [TCP Sockets API](/workers/runtime-apis/tcp-sockets/).
```

> ## Step 3: Configure the connection to the PostgreSQL database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Configure the connection to the PostgreSQL database
```

> In this step, choose one of the two methods to connect to your PostgreSQL database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose one of the two methods to connect to your PostgreSQL database:
```

Reviewer: Where is happening? In the Worker code? Need filenames on code blocks if so.

> 1. [Using a connection string](#using-a-connection-string)
> 2. [Setting explicit parameters](#setting-explicit-parameters)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Use a connection string](#using-a-connection-string).
2. [Set explicit parameters](#setting-explicit-parameters).
```

> ### Using a connection string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use a connection string
```

> Create a connection string with the format:

Reviewer: where?

Author: Added more explanation here

```
postgresql://username:password@host:port/database
```

Replace `username`, `password`, `host`, `port`, and `database` with the appropriate values for your PostgreSQL database.

Next, set your connection string as a [secret](/workers/platform/environment-variables/#add-secrets-to-your-project) so that it is not stored as plain text. Use [`wrangler secret put`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#secret) with the example variable name `DB_URL`:

```sh
$ wrangler secret put DB_URL
➜  wrangler secret put DB_URL
-------------------------------------------------------
? Enter a secret value: › ********************
✨ Success! Uploaded secret DB_URL
```

> ### Setting explicit parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set explicit parameters
```

> Configure each database parameter as an [environment variable](/workers/platform/environment-variables/) via the [dashboard](/workers/platform/environment-variables/#environment-variables-via-the-dashboard) or in your `wrangler.toml` file. Here's an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure each database parameter as an [environment variable](/workers/platform/environment-variables/) via the [Cloudflare dashboard](/workers/platform/environment-variables/#environment-variables-via-the-dashboard) or in your `wrangler.toml` file. Refer to an example of a`wrangler.toml` file configuration:
```

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---

[vars]
DB_USERNAME = "postgres"
# Set your password by creating a secret so it is not stored as plain text
DB_HOST = "ep-aged-sound-175961.us-east-2.aws.neon.tech"
DB_PORT = "5432"
DB_NAME = "productsdb"
```

To set your password as a [secret](/workers/platform/environment-variables/#add-secrets-to-your-project) so that it is not stored as plain text, use [`wrangler secret put`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#secret). `DB_PASSWORD` is an example variable name for this secret to be accessed in your Worker:

```sh
$ wrangler secret put DB_PASSWORD
-------------------------------------------------------
? Enter a secret value: › ********************
✨ Success! Uploaded secret DB_PASSWORD
```

> ## Step 4: Connect to the PostgreSQL database in the Worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. Connect to the PostgreSQL database in the Worker
```

> Open your Worker's main file (e.g., `index.ts`) and import the `Client` class from the `pg` library:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open your Worker's main file (for example, `worker.ts`) and import the `Client` class from the `pg` library:
```

> ```typescript

Reviewer: filename needed

import { Client } from "pg";
```

> In the `fetch` event handler, connect to the PostgreSQL database using your chosen method, either the connection string or the explicit parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `fetch` event handler, connect to the PostgreSQL database using your chosen method, either the connection string or the explicit parameters.
```

> ### Using a connection string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use a connection string
```

> ```typescript

Reviewer: filename needed, what are they doing with this code?

const client = new Client(env.DB_URL);
await client.connect();
```

> ### Setting explicit parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set explicit parameters
```

> ```typescript

Reviewer: same comment as above

const client = new Client({
  user: env.DB_USERNAME,
  password: env.DB_PASSWORD,
  host: env.DB_HOST,
  port: env.DB_PORT,
  database: env.DB_NAME
});
await client.connect();
```

> ## Step 5: Interact with the products database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 5. Interact with the products database
```

> To demonstrate how to interact with the products database, you will fetch data from the `products` table by creating a Worker that queries the table when a request is received.

Reviewer: Are you creating a Worker or modifying the one you made in the beginning of this tutorial? If latter, update wording accordingly.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> If you're following along in your own PostgreSQL instance, set up the `products` using the following SQL `CREATE TABLE` statement. This statement defines the columns and their respective data types for the `products` table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are following along in your own PostgreSQL instance, set up the `products` using the following SQL `CREATE TABLE` statement. This statement defines the columns and their respective data types for the `products` table:
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE products (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  description TEXT,
  price DECIMAL(10, 2) NOT NULL
);
```

{{</Aside>}}

Replace the existing code in your `index.ts` file with the following code:

```typescript
---

> filename: index.ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
filename: worker.ts
```

--- 
export default {
  async fetch(
    request: Request,
    env: Env,
    ctx: ExecutionContext
  ): Promise<Response> {
    const client = new Client(env.DB_URL);
    await client.connect();

    // Query the products table
    const result = await client.query("SELECT * FROM products");

    // Return the result as JSON
    const resp = new Response(JSON.stringify(result.rows), {
      headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
    });

    // Clean up the client
    ctx.waitUntil(client.end());
    return resp;
  },
};
```

> This code establishes a connection to the PostgreSQL database and queries the `products` table, returning the results as a JSON response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code establishes a connection to the PostgreSQL database within your Worker application and queries the `products` table, returning the results as a JSON response.
```

> ## Step 6: Deploy the Worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 6. Deploy your Worker
```

> If you haven't already deployed the project, use the following command to deploy the Worker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to deploy your Worker:
```

```sh
$ npx wrangler deploy
```

> Now you can interact with your PostgreSQL products database using your Cloudflare Worker. Whenever a request is made to your Worker's URL, it will fetch data from the `products` table and return it as a JSON response. You can modify the query as needed to retrieve the desired data from your products database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your application is now live and accessible at `<YOUR_WORKER>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`.

After deploying, you can interact with your PostgreSQL products database using your Cloudflare Worker. Whenever a request is made to your Worker's URL, it will fetch data from the `products` table and return it as a JSON response. You can modify the query as needed to retrieve the desired data from your products database.
```

> ## Step 7: Insert a new row into the products database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 7. Insert a new row into the products database
```

To insert a new row into the `products` table, create a new API endpoint in your Worker that handles a `POST` request. When a `POST` request is received with a JSON payload, the Worker will insert a new row into the `products` table with the provided data.

> As mentioned above, let's assume the `products` table has the following columns: `id`, `name`, `description`, and `price`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume the `products` table has the following columns: `id`, `name`, `description`, and `price`.
```
Removing 'as mentioned above' because I am assuming there is no code block here?

> Add the following code snippet inside the `fetch` event handler in your `index.ts` file, before the existing query code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following code snippet inside the `fetch` event handler in your `worker.ts` file, before the existing query code:
```

```typescript
---

> filename: index.ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
filename: worker.ts
```

  // Parse the request's JSON payload
  const productData = await request.json();

  // Insert the new product into the database
  const insertQuery = `
    INSERT INTO products (name, description, price)
    VALUES ($1, $2, $3)
    RETURNING *
  `;
  const values = [productData.name, productData.description, productData.price];
  const insertResult = await client.query(insertQuery, values);

  // Return the inserted row as JSON
  const insertResp = new Response(JSON.stringify(insertResult.rows[0]), {
    headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
  });

  // Clean up the client
  ctx.waitUntil(client.end());
  return insertResp;
}
```

This code snippet does the following:

1. Checks if the request is a `POST` request and the URL path is `/products`.
2. Parses the JSON payload from the request.
3. Constructs an `INSERT` SQL query using the provided product data.
4. Executes the query, inserting the new row into the `products` table.
5. Returns the inserted row as a JSON response.

Now, when you send a `POST` request to your Worker's URL with the `/products` path and a JSON payload, the Worker will insert a new row into the `products` table with the provided data.

> Modify your existing deployment code to accommodate the new feature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify your existing Worker code to accommodate the new feature:
```

```typescript
---

> filename: index.ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
filename: worker.ts
```

---
if (request.method === "POST" && url.pathname === "/products") {
  // (Insert a new row as detailed in the code snippet above)
} else if (request.method === "GET" && url.pathname === "/products") {
  // (Fetch data from the products table as detailed in Step 5)
}
```

After making these changes, deploy the Worker again by running:

```sh
$ npx wrangler deploy
```

You can now use your Cloudflare Worker to insert new rows into the `products` table. To test this functionality, send a `POST` request to your Worker's URL with the `/products` path, along with a JSON payload containing the new product data:

```json
{
  "name": "Sample Product",
  "description": "This is a sample product",
  "price": 19.99
}
```

> ## Conclusion and next steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Congratulations! You've successfully created a Cloudflare Worker that connects to a PostgreSQL database and handles fetching data and inserting new rows into a products table. This is just the beginning of what you can achieve with Cloudflare Workers and databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have successfully created a Cloudflare Worker that connects to a PostgreSQL database and handles fetching data and inserting new rows into a products table.
```

> For more inspiration, check out additional tutorials in our [tutorials section](/workers/tutorials) and explore the database features in the [Databases documentation](/workers/databases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Next steps

To build more with databases and Workers, refer to [Tutorials](/workers/tutorials) and explore the [Databases documentation](/workers/databases).
```

---
updated: 2023-06-12
difficulty: Intermediate
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial

> title: Connect to a PostgreSQL Database with Cloudflare Workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Connect to a PostgreSQL database with Cloudflare Workers
```

---
import { Client } from "pg";
```

In the `fetch` event handler, connect to the PostgreSQL database using your chosen method, either the connection string or the explicit parameters.

### Use a connection string

```typescript
---
filename: worker.ts
---
const client = new Client(env.DB_URL);
await client.connect();
```

### Set explicit parameters

```typescript
---
filename: worker.ts
---
const client = new Client({
  user: env.DB_USERNAME,
  password: env.DB_PASSWORD,
  host: env.DB_HOST,
  port: env.DB_PORT,
  database: env.DB_NAME
});
await client.connect();
```

## 5. Interact with the products database

To demonstrate how to interact with the products database, you will fetch data from the `products` table by querying the table when a request is received.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

If you are following along in your own PostgreSQL instance, set up the `products` using the following SQL `CREATE TABLE` statement. This statement defines the columns and their respective data types for the `products` table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE products (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  description TEXT,
  price DECIMAL(10, 2) NOT NULL
);
```

{{</Aside>}}

> Replace the existing code in your `index.ts` file with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the existing code in your `worker.ts` file with the following code:
```
